                  Star Voyager flight manual (version 0.5.0)


    * Starting a game
    * Screen layout
    * Controlling your vessel
    * Targetting other objects
    * Weapons
    * Shields
    * Fuel
    * Credits
    * Saving and restoring the game
    * Command line options
    * Network play
    * Controls quick reference

===============================================================================
 Starting a game
 Upon running Star Voyager, the game can be started by pressing '1' as prompted
by the panel on the right-hand side of the screen. This is where a lot of
important information will be displayed; pay attention. Should all go well, you
will be prompted to choose a name for your player; do so and press return. If
this player name hasn't been used in previous games, you will then be presented
with a list of alliances available to play as. Again, this is a numeric
selection. And with that, you're in the game. Once in the game, it is
recommended to choose a password for your new player as prompted. You will only
require this password should you connect to the game remotely, but if a
password isn't set this player will not be preserved.

 The screen layout
 The main part of the screen, all but the panels on the right hand side is the
centre of the action. Usually this will be centred around the starship you are
currently controlling, and show you space in the immediate vicinity. Any planet
or vessel you are currently targetting will be clearly bracketed with red
pointers. This main viewer can be set at different zoom levels with the "/" key
 On the top-right of the screen is the sensor display, which can be zoomed in
or out all the way to the bounds of the gameplay universe with the "-" and "+".
Your sensor range will be clearly marked with a blue box; the only objects
visible outside of it on sensors are stellar. All objects in motion will have
their vector clearly displayer. Any targetted object is clearly hilighted, and
a minimal description can be found in the bottom-left corner. Displayed at the
top of the sensor screen are your current co-ordinates and velocity.

                               Radar colour key:
              Green Large object, stellar or planetary
              White Friendly vessel
              Red   Hostile vessel
              Blue  Small object, such as debris or weapons fire


 To the right of the sensor display are bar indicators concerning your ship's
vital signs. From left to right; shields, energy, hull strength and fuel level.
 One of the most important functions, access to the ship's computer, is located
in the bottom-right panel; from there, ship status and scanners can be queried,
as well as handling onboard systems such as shields and cloaking. Interaction
is handled numerically, as in the startup screen. The computer can be switched
into different modes using the F keys.
 Whenever you are prompted for text to input, the input area beneath the
console will be hilighted; certain controls will obviously be disabled in the
game, those that are bound to alphanumeric keys.

 Controlling your vessel
 Acceleration and turning are handled using the cursor keys. Performance will
of course vary from vessel to vessel. Handling at warp speed is similar, except
that the acceleration magnitudes are considerably higher. Shifting into warp
speed is accomplished through holding down the Shift key while accelerating
beyond your maximum sublight velocity. Dropping out of warp also requires the
Shift modifier. Reverse thrust is achieved by attempting to reduce speed whilst
stopped, with the Shift key held down also.

 Targetting
 Changing your current target to another planet or ship serves several
purposes. Detailed scans can be viewed on a target, and the targetting pointer
on the main viewer also aids navigation. For targetted ships there is also
another purpose; combat.
 All targetting is done only objects within the scope of the sensor display;
zooming in or out can facilitate things as appropriate. The "t" key will cycle
through vessels, while "p" cycles through stellar objects. "e" is equivalent to
"t", except only upon hostile vessels. Holding down Shift for any of these
reverses the cycling.

 Weapons
 Keeping the space bar depressed will fire your energy weapons, usually phasers
or disruptors, aiming at the selected target if possible. Tapping 'z' will
shoot off one projectile weapon, almost always a torpedo, at the target if it
is in range (and angular coverage of any launchers).

 Shields
 These can be toggled on or off from the internal systems mode of the ships
computer. Be aware that leaving shields on drains energy, and also inhibits any
transporter activity.

 Fuel
 Keeping an eye on your fuel level is important; once it drops to zero you can
no longer generate power for maneuvering, shields and weapons. Then you're as
good as dead. Hailing inhabited planets to see if they'll sell you fuel (among
other things) when you run low would be a good idea.

 Credits
 Credits are your currency in the universe of Star Voyager. Without them you
can't buy fuel, ammunition and equipment from inhabited planets. Currently,
credits can only be earnt through combat; destruction of a (enemy) vessel will
net you some amount that you will be prompted with. Contract missions may be in
future releases.

 Saving the game
 Although the state of the universe is continually saved, the state of your
player's ship is only saved when you can beam down to a planet in your own
allegiance (hail an inhabited planet for this option). You must remember to set
a password for your game first time round; you will be prompted to do so when
you login (on the side computer panel).

 Command line options
 For running Star Voyager with different options from the command line, run sv
with the '-h' switch for more information.

 Multiplayer
 After setting up a Star Voyager server (use command line options, see above),
up to 32 players can connect to it and can play and interact in a shared
universe. Select the 'Connect to a server' option from the startup screen and
type in the IP address/hostname of the server.

 Controls quick reference
  Cursors Change speed and direction
  Space   Fire phasers at target
  z       Fire torpedoes at target
  t       Target nearby ship
  e       Target nearby enemy
  p       Target nearby planet
  -,=     Zoom the sensor display
  Shift   Hold down for warp/impulse transition. Also reverses target cycling
  q       Quit from within a game
  /       Zoom the main display
  F1      Your status
  F2      Internal systems
  F3      Scanner
  F4      Hail target ship/planet
  F5      Chat to player(s) (only useful in multiplayer)
  F6      Player information
  F7      Game miscellaenia
